Up until now, we've seen
three TD algorithms for control,
Sarsa, Q-learning,
and Expected Sarsa.
Two of those algorithms,
Sarsa and Expected Sarsa
both approximate
the same Bellman equation.
Today, let's look at how
Expected Sarsa is
related to Q-learning.
By the end of this video,
you will understand
how Expected Sarsa
can do off-policy
learning without using
importance sampling and explain
how Expected Sarsa
generalizes Q-learning.
Let's start with
the on-policy case,
where the behavior policy and
the target policy are equal.
Consider the
Expected Sarsa update.
The next action is sampled
from Pi in this case.
However, notice that
the expectation over actions is
computed independently
of the action
actually selected
in the next state.
In fact, Pi need not be equal
to the behavior policy.
This means that Expected Sarsa,
like Q-learning,
can be used to learn
off-policy without
importance sampling.
Now, what happens if
the target policy is greedy
with respect to it's
action value estimates?
We can see that
only the highest value action
is considered in the expectation.
This is equivalent to
computing the maximum over
actions in the next state
just like in Q-learning.
In other words, Q-Learning is
a special case of Expected Sarsa.
In this video, we showed that
expected Sarsa and
Q-Learning both use
the expectation over
their target policies
in their update targets.
This allows them to learn
off-policy without
importance sampling.
Expected Sarsa with
the target policy that's
greedy with respect to
its action values, is
exactly Q-learning.